Our missions conference is on the calendar
and I believe that it's important
as we think about missions conference
that we seek to be prepared for missions conference.
And honestly, missions conference is probably
one of my favorite times of the calendar year.
I enjoy revival meetings in the fall.
They're obviously a huge blessing,
a highlight on the calendar,
but a missions conference is kind of a revival meeting,
missions emphasis kind of all tied together
and just absolutely love it.
If you've never been part of a missions conference,
I wanna encourage you to be here
for the missions conference.
I believe that you'll be encouraged and blessed.
I know some have not been here
as part of our missions conference.
You're newer to our church
and we wanna make sure that you're ready
for what God has for us.
And the preaching is stirring, it's convicting.
We're challenged to have a portion,
a part in what God is doing globally.
I'm always reminded as we read our update letters
from our missionaries,
as I interact with our missionaries, I pray for them.
I'm reminded that God is doing a work globally
and I'm thankful for the work that God is doing.
I'm thankful for the work that God is doing locally,
but we understand that for God so loved the world
and God is doing a work globally
and I am extremely thankful
that we have an opportunity to be a part
in what God is doing.
And I am persuaded that God's people
should actively prepare,
not only for every Sunday morning, every service,
we ought to have prepared hearts,
but we have these special meetings.
It's important that we're prepared spiritually.
Every time we have a missions conference,
we'll give out some things this evening.
Every time we have a revival meeting,
we give you a little handout of some prayer points
for the week and seeking to have your heart prepared,
to have our hearts prepared
and praying for those that will come and be with us.
And so we desire to be ready for what God has for us.
I believe this, that God, every time you open your Bible,
whether it's in your daily devotions
or if it's when you come to a church service,
I believe every single time God has something for us.
And we need to have hearts that are prepared
to receive what God has for us
and that we're actively seeking the Lord
to have that heart that is a tender heart.
You know, God speaks of Josiah,
of a man that had a tender heart.
The word of God was read and man,
he responded to the word of God being read
in a very appropriate way.
And we need to have our hearts prepared.
This morning, with really that thought in mind
of having hearts prepared,
I want us to consider a portion of scripture here
in Acts chapter number 20,
where the apostle Paul is speaking to the leaders
of the church at Ephesus.
And Paul has a desire to get to Jerusalem and on his way,
he has a desire to meet with these leaders
from the church at Ephesus.
And as he calls them together,
he shares many things with them.
This morning, I'm gonna jump in the midst of the text,
but we find that he begins speaking to them.
It says that in verse 17,
from Miletus he sent to Ephesus
and called the elders of the church.
And in verse 18, and when they were come to him,
he said unto them,
and he starts out by saying this,
ye know from the first day that I came into Asia,
after what manner I have been with you at all seasons.
And the apostle Paul begins to talk about several things
with regard to his service for the Lord there in Ephesus.
And obviously as God would use him in other regions
during his missionary journeys.
But as he's speaking to this group of church leaders,
I want you to pick it up with me in verse 26.
The Bible says this,
wherefore, wherefore I take you to record this day
that I am pure from the blood of all men.
For I have not shunned to declare unto you all
the counsel of God.
I have not shunned to declare unto you
all the counsel of God.
That word shunned in verse number 27 is very unique word.
In fact, that word's only used four times
in the entire New Testament,
that Greek word there that's translated shunned.
And on two of those four times,
it's in this address to the leaders of the church at Ephesus
and that word that is used and translated shunned,
it carries with it the idea of those who from timidity
hesitate to avow what they believe.
To be unwilling to utter from fear,
to shrink from declaring, to conceal.
You notice that Paul says,
for I have not shunned to declare unto you
all the counsel of God.
I've titled the message this morning from verse number 26,
do I have blood on my hands?
Do I have blood on my hands?
Notice with me if you're taking notes this morning,
number one, Paul's understanding,
Paul's understanding.
We must recognize at the onset of the message this morning
that the Apostle Paul was well-trained.
We find that the Apostle Paul would have been an expert
in the Old Testament and he was trained,
he was schooled, he understood.
And many times even as he is dealing with
and preaching and writing,
you'll find there's a number of references
that he gives to the Old Testament.
And so understanding the fact that the Apostle Paul
is an expert in the Old Testament,
I conclude that his reference here in verse number 26,
where he says that I'm pure from the blood of all men
has its roots in the book of Ezekiel.
So if you take your Bible and turn back
to the book of Ezekiel, just briefly this morning,
Ezekiel chapter number three,
and I want you to notice there in the book of Ezekiel
in the third chapter,
you can look at the 33rd chapter as well,
but we'll spend time here right in Ezekiel
chapter number three.
And I want you to understand some things here
with regard to what Paul is referencing
when he says that he's pure from the blood of all men.
We find here in Ezekiel chapter number three,
pick it up with me in verse number 16, if you will,
Ezekiel chapter number three in verse number 16.
And it came to pass at the end of seven days
that the word of the Lord came unto me saying,
son of man, I have made thee a watchman
under the house of Israel.
Therefore, hear the word at my mouth
and give them warning from me.
Now, let me just pause for a moment.
As you study the scriptures here
and you understand the responsibility of Ezekiel,
you find that the Bible tells us in verse 17
and verse 16 that the word of the Lord came unto me saying,
and God comes to Ezekiel, he refers to him as son of man.
And notice what God says,
I, God, have made thee, Ezekiel, a watchman.
Can I tell you in a very real way this morning,
God has made us as his people watchmen.
He has made us witnesses.
It's not something that we see here
where there was some kind of application
that was sent out of who wants to be a watchman
and Ezekiel filled that thing out and whatever,
and he got the job.
No, God says, I have set thee, Ezekiel, to be a watchman.
And what is the responsibility?
Well, we find here, it says this,
he's a watchman under the house of Israel.
Therefore, notice when he says, hear the word at my mouth,
so he's gonna hear the word of God
and give them warning from who, from me.
So we find that Ezekiel would have this task,
this responsibility of being a watchman.
And really what he was responsible to do
was to hear from God and faithfully declare to the people
the warning from God.
And we find that we could make application
even see as Paul does in Acts chapter number 20
with regard to this reference,
that God, he says that ye shall be witnesses unto me.
We understand that we are his witnesses.
We understand that he's given us this responsibility
to preach the gospel, that we're to go and warn every man.
And we find that that warning is coming from God.
It's that we're speaking the word of God
to a lost and dying world.
And so we find in verse 18,
that God continues to explain to Ezekiel
what this means, what is contained within the idea
that I'm a watchman and what are the responsibilities.
In verse 18, when I say unto the wicked,
thou shalt surely die and thou givest him not warning.
So notice in verse 18, he says that God says,
I'm going to give this warning, but you don't do,
you do not fulfill your responsibility as a watchman.
He says, and thou givest him not warning,
nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way
to save his life.
The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity.
But notice the content there at the end of verse 18,
but his blood will I require at thine hand.
Wow, that's significant.
I mean, those are serious stakes.
God says, I'm given the warning and your job,
Ezekiel, as a watchman is to simply receive from me
and then deliver to the people.
And if you do not, remember Paul said there,
as we looked at the text in Acts chapter number 20,
that he did not shun from declaring.
And we find here that he says,
if thou givest him not warning,
his blood will I require.
require at thine hand.
Yet, verse 19, if thou warn the wicked,
and he turn not from his wickedness,
nor from his wicked way,
he shall die in his iniquity,
but thou hast delivered thy soul.
Not everyone that I've ever warned,
not everyone that you've ever warned,
not everyone that I will warn or that you will warn
will respond to the warning.
There will be those that will reject,
that will not believe the warning
that we're speaking from God.
And here's what God says,
but you fulfilled your responsibility as a watchman.
Why?
You heard and you delivered.
And what they do with it is between them and God.
And he says that that person that did not turn,
they did not heed the warning,
that they will die in their iniquity.
But notice the end of verse number 19,
but thou hast delivered thy soul.
Again, verse 20, when a righteous man
doth turn from his righteousness and commit iniquity,
and I lay a stumbling block before him,
he shall die because thou hast not given him warning.
He shall die in his sin and his righteousness,
which he hath done shall not be remembered,
but his blood, notice again, will I require at thine hand.
Nevertheless, if thou warn the righteous man
that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin,
he shall surely live because he is warned.
Also thou hast delivered thy soul.
And the hand of the Lord was there upon me.
And he said unto me, arise, go forth into the plain,
and I will there talk with thee.
And so here in Ezekiel chapter three,
in verses 16 through 22,
God provides for us this responsibility
given to Ezekiel as a watchman.
But as we look in Acts chapter number 20,
and we find the apostle Paul
speaking to these leaders of the church at Ephesus,
we find that Paul says within this address,
he says, I am pure from the blood of all men.
A man that was well acquainted with the Old Testament,
a man that understood the teaching of the Old Testament,
an expert, a master, if you will, in the Old Testament.
And he says, I am pure from the blood of all men, why?
For I have not shunned to declare unto you
all the counsel of God.
And we find that the apostle Paul had an understanding.
We find that in Acts chapter 18,
just a page or two over in your Bible,
notice what Paul says in Acts chapter number 18,
to those who rejected the message at Corinth.
He's ministering there in Corinth.
God had instructed him to go there.
God opened the door,
and there were some that opposed themselves
according to verse number six.
Notice what the Bible says.
And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed,
notice what Paul does.
He shook his raiment and said unto them,
your blood be upon your own heads, I am clean.
From henceforth, I will go unto the Gentiles.
What was Paul saying there in Acts 18 in verse number six?
I've warned you, you've not heeded the warning,
that's your problem.
You're responsible, you're accountable,
your blood, notice what he says,
your blood be upon your own heads,
but then he says this, I am clean.
Paul's job was not for all of these people to get saved,
though that would be the desire of any preacher
that people would respond
and accept the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Paul can say I am clean because he gave the warning.
So Paul's understanding, he understood two things.
Number one, he understood his own commission.
He understood his responsibility.
He understood that like Ezekiel was ordained
to be a watchman, that the apostle Paul
had been given a task, he had been given a commission.
Oftentimes, we speak about the great commission
and we mention about the truth
that Jesus gave the great commission.
You shall go into all the world
and preach the gospel to every creature.
And that's Mark's gospel.
What we find that the great commission
is in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts,
and we find that it's repeated
and God wants us to be aware of the commission
that we have been given.
And Paul says it this way in Romans chapter number one
in verse number 14, and we'll actually reference
a few of these statements that he makes
in Romans chapter number one.
But I want you to see how Paul mentions it
because Paul had an understanding
and he understood his commission.
He understood it personally.
The Bible says this in Romans chapter number one
in verse number 14.
Notice the first three words, I am debtor.
I am debtor.
Think about the weight of that statement.
The understanding that the apostle Paul
is recognizing that he is debtor, he is indebted.
What is the debt the apostle Paul owed?
Well, notice he says, both to the Greeks
and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise.
And if you continue to read,
which we will through the message this morning,
you understand that what he was referencing
is that he was a debtor because he had been commissioned
to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Can I tell you this morning that each one of us
have been commissioned to preach the gospel
of the Lord Jesus Christ?
We're gonna have a missions conference
and I'm thankful to have a missions conference,
but I want you to understand this morning
that every Christian is a missionary.
It doesn't require that you go to a different land,
a different country.
It doesn't require that you learn a different language.
It doesn't require that you learn a different culture.
It doesn't require that you get on a ship or an airplane.
No, we are missionaries.
We sing the song with the kids, be a missionary every day.
And the reality is that each one of us,
every single one of us need to view ourselves
as being debtors.
I am indebted.
Where does this idea come from?
The idea that God has given me something
that I need to give to others.
And I am indebted and I have this debt that I have to pay.
I have to let people know the truth of the gospel
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
You don't need to turn there,
but in 2 Corinthians chapter number five,
when we think about Paul understanding his commission,
there in 2 Corinthians chapter five in verse number 20,
Paul says that now then are we ambassadors.
You think about that responsibility of being an ambassador,
a representative.
And we find that within the text there
in 2 Corinthians chapter number five in verse number 20,
he makes it clear what we're ambassadors to do.
He says, as though God did beseech you by us,
we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
God has given to us as Paul would mention
in 2 Corinthians chapter number four, this ministry.
What is this ministry?
It's the ministry of reconciliation.
It's the responsibility that we have as ambassadors
to go forth and to be his representatives,
to go and take the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ
to a lost and dying world.
I don't know if you've realized it, but people are dying.
People are dying.
People need the Lord.
They need to know the truth of the gospel.
And it's our responsibility to preach the gospel.
Paul had an understanding of his commission.
Not only did he have an understanding of his commission,
he had an understanding of their condition.
See, Paul understood that people were dying,
but he understood that people were lost.
He understood that for all have sinned
and come short of the glory of God.
He understood that.
The apostle Paul understood that we're all sinners.
And he understood as the Bible says in Romans six,
and God would use him to write the book of Romans
in verse 23, for the wages of sin is death.
The apostle Paul understood with great clarity
what was at stake.
And the apostle Paul had a desire for people to be saved.
And he went forth and we find this understanding,
it's foundational to what we look at here.
And we understand this text of scripture
in Acts chapter number 20,
and he understood their condition.
Notice what Paul says in first Timothy, if you will,
turn their first Timothy chapter one,
we'll look at a couple of verses
in the first and second chapter.
But notice in first Timothy,
as Paul would give understanding
to his son in the faith, Timothy,
truth with regard to the condition of humanity
and their need.
Can I remind you this morning that the greatest need
of every single human being is to be saved
by the blood of Christ.
That is the greatest need of every human being
is salvation.
If you're here this morning and you've been saved
by the grace of God, you know for sure
with absolute certainty that heaven is your home,
your greatest need has been met.
And it can only be met through Jesus Christ.
He's the only one, he is the savior of the world.
He is the only one that can save,
that has the power to save.
And it's only through his precious blood
that he shed on the cross of Calvary.
And we find here in first Timothy chapter number one,
notice what Paul says in verse number 15.
This is a faithful saying,
and worthy of all acceptation,
that Christ Jesus came into the world
for what purpose?
To save sinners.
Paul says of whom I am chief,
how be it for this cause,
I am chief of the world.
mercy. Aren't you thankful that God who is rich in
mercy. The Bible says that in me first Jesus Christ
might show forth all long suffering for a pattern to
them which should hereafter believe on Him to life
everlasting. If you go to chapter number 2 and notice
in verse number 4 the Bible says who speaking of God
our Savior. Look at verse 3, for this is good and
acceptable in the sight of God our Savior who will
have all men to be saved and to come under the
knowledge of the truth. Listen this morning it is
God's will for human beings to be saved. The Bible
says very plainly in 2 Peter chapter number 3 for
God it says that He's not willing that any should
perish but that all should come to repentance. And
we find this morning the truth as the Apostle Paul
is understanding the condition of humanity. He's
understanding the condition of those that God has
called him to minister to in His own commission and we
find that this was understood. Paul had an
understanding. This morning I would say that it's
important for every one of us to have an
understanding of these same truths. Number one that
we've been commissioned, that we've been given
responsibility, that as the disciples would say that
we are His witnesses, that we would desire to be
faithful ambassadors. See the reality this morning
is that you're an ambassador. The question is
what kind of an ambassador are you? Amen? We are His
ambassadors. Just what kind? The reality this morning
is if you're saved, if you're a child of God, you
are a soldier. But the Bible says that we're to be
good soldiers of Jesus Christ. And we find that we
can ask the question what kind of soldier are we?
What kind of ambassador am I? And we look at this
and we find that we must understand this commission
that has been given to us as individuals. God clearly
speaks to Ezekiel and makes it plain. I have set
thee to be a watchman. This is the commission that
Ezekiel was given by God Almighty and for those of
us that are here this morning that are saved we've
been given a commission. But we also must understand
the condition of those around us. Every single
person that you see is going to spend forever
somewhere. And we know on the authority of God's
word there's only two places. Heaven and the lake
of fire. That's it. There's no in between. There's
no in between. And every single person that we come
in contact with is going to die one day. As it
appointed unto man wants to die. But after this the
judgment. Listen it's serious business. This thing
of being a Christian. Paul understood. This morning
we need to kind of have a reset of understanding
the truth that we find Paul communicating here to
the leaders of the church at Ephesus. The understanding
notice not only Paul's understanding but I want you
to notice number two Paul's urgency. Paul's urgency.
Go back to Acts chapter number 20 if you will. In
Acts chapter number 20 it's interesting again we're
not taking the entire context and we're not
preaching through the book of Acts this morning or
through this chapter. But I want you to understand
the urgency even with regard to meeting with these
leaders of the church at Ephesus. Paul didn't have
the time to go meet with them. He was on his way to
Jerusalem and he calls for them. And he's going to
meet with them. And he tells them all of these
wonderful things. And he gives them testimony. Gives
them instruction. He says this in verse 22. And now
behold I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem not
knowing the things that shall befall me there save
that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city
saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. And so
the Apostle Paul says I'm going to Jerusalem. I don't
know all that I'm going to face but I know that
there's going to be trials and troubles and
difficulties. Why? Because the work of God is always
opposed. By the way everywhere that Paul went he
was met with opposition. But notice verse 24. But none
of these things move me. None of these things move
me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself so that
I might finish. Notice he says so that I might finish
my course with joy and the ministry. Notice what he
says. Which I have received of the Lord Jesus to
testify the gospel of the grace of God. Listen the
Apostle Paul understood as we mentioned a moment ago
his commission and their condition. And you notice
in verse 24 that he says but none of these things move
me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself. He had a
goal so that I might finish my course with joy and the
ministry. But notice this statement which I have
received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of
the grace of God. Listen this morning we've been
given a ministry from our Lord. From our Lord. And
Paul's understanding led to urgency. We find that his
understanding of what Christ had commissioned him to do,
what Christ had equipped him to do, that God had
enabled him to do, that he was going to do it with
urgency. In fact we see here in Acts chapter 20 if you
skip down to verse number 27 he says, I read it by way
of introduction for I have not shunned to declare unto
you all the counsel of God. But then look in verse 31
the Bible says this, Therefore watch and remember
that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn
everyone night and day with tears. Do you see the
urgency in verse 27? Paul says for three years. Three
years is a long time. He says that I ceased not, by
the space of three years I ceased not to warn
everyone night and day. But then it says this, with
tears. That urgency coupled with that compassion. The
understanding of the condition of humanity. The
understanding of the condition of those
individuals that he would speak to, that he would
seek to minister to. And he says that I ceased not to
warn everyone night and day with tears. Oh that lost
people would see the love of Christ in us. The
compassion. Our Lord was moved with compassion. And
we too are to be compassionate. Some have
compassion making a difference we read in the
book of Jude. We find this morning that the apostle
Paul operated with urgency. In Acts chapter number 17
he's there in a situation where he's been dealing
with some difficulty in Thessalonica and Berea and
he's left there in Athens. And the Bible tells us that
when he's in Athens and really the idea if you were
to look at the entirety of what happens in Acts 17
that Paul is to go there and really kind of rest up if
you will. But the Bible says that Paul was there and he
saw this city, the city of Athens and he saw that it
was a city that was wholly given to idolatry. A city
that was completely entirely given to idolatry. And the
Bible says that his spirit was stirred within him. And
so what do you find Paul doing? Well you find him
going and preaching. And he says I went and I saw all
these altars and I saw this one to the unknown God and
Him declare I unto you and he preaches the gospel. He
lived with urgency. We find that in Romans chapter 1 as
we mentioned earlier that he understood that he was a
debtor but because of his understanding of being a
debtor in verse number 15 he says this, so as much as in
me is I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are
at Rome also. He was ready. I'm reminded as you begin
to think about this idea of being ready and being
prepared and having that mindset that every
conversation I'm desiring to bring to a place of gospel
message. These interactions that the Lord would give us.
We find that the Apostle Paul he went everywhere
preaching. Seeking to declare the truth of who God is.
See Paul's life had been changed miraculously. Paul
got saved on the road to Damascus. We read it in Acts
chapter 9 and his life was forever changed. God did for
Paul, Saul at the time we know that his name would be
changed but God did for Saul what no religion could do
for Saul. He was a religious man. Again master, scholar
of the Old Testament, religious man. But Christ did
something for him that no religion could do. Christ did
something for him that no man could do. Christ changed
his life, saved his soul, met his greatest need. We find
that his life was changed and God gave him a commission,
a mandate, a responsibility and we find that Paul lived
with urgency. He lived with urgency. He had a desire
for people to be saved and he went preaching the gospel
and he had this burden. He mentions it in 2 Corinthians
10 to go to the regions beyond. To go and to reach
more and more people with the gospel of the Lord Jesus
Christ.
Christ. See, the Apostle Paul believed what God revealed to him and it impacted his behavior.
We've mentioned so many times that belief impacts behavior and that behavior reveals
belief. And this morning when you look at the life of the Apostle Paul and when you
look at his manner and as he would go and preach the gospel, listen, he understood that
he had been commissioned. He understood what was at stake and he understood the truth
from Ezekiel chapter number three that God said, hey, Ezekiel, if I give you a warning
and you don't do what I tell you to do, you don't deliver that warning, yes, they're going
to die, but their blood, their blood I'm going to require your hands. It's weighty. It's
weighty. Do we live with urgency? Do we have the understanding? The Bible says in 2 Corinthians
chapter number four, we're familiar with the verse in verse number three, but if our gospel
be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. The Bible goes on to tell us in verse number four
that the God of this world, the little g God of this world, have blinded their minds lest
the light of the glorious gospel should shine unto them. The Bible goes on to say a few
verses later, I believe it's in verse number seven, that we have this treasure in earthen
vessels. This morning, the title of the message is do I have blood on my hands, but I'll be
honest with you, it's not an easy message to preach by the way. All week long God has
been dealing with me. Here's a better question that I ask myself. It's not do I have blood
on my hands, but how much blood do I have on my hands? There's really not a situation
where I can say, as Paul says in Acts chapter number 20, I mean it's under the inspirational
Holy Spirit of God that I am pure from the blood of all men. I can't say that this morning.
It's not a matter of do I have blood on my hands, it's how much blood do I have on my
hands? And as I begin to think about the message and begin to think about the seriousness of
what's before us and the idea, yes we're going to have a missions conference and it's an
exciting time on our church calendar and we're going to hear some preaching and we're going
to be stirred up about what God is going to do in this missionary family that's going
to this place and this missionary family that's going to this place and work that's
taking place and so on and so forth and we read letters all the time from our missionaries
about things that are taking place, but I'm a missionary and you're a missionary. I've
been given a commission and you've been given a commission. As individual believers we have
this responsibility. And so really as I think about the message and I think about the Apostle
Paul saying that I am pure from the blood of all men and asking ourselves the question
this morning, how much blood do I have on my hands? I would say this, how do we respond
to such a message? How do we respond to such a truth? Well I really think there's a two
fold response. Number one this morning is that we can think about those missed opportunities
and we can have regret. We can look at the missed opportunities. I hope this morning
that you can humbly acknowledge that you've missed opportunities. Maybe the Spirit of
God specifically in that still small voice spoke to you about sharing the gospel with
someone and you didn't. You shunned. You were timid. You were fearful. I've been there.
We're in that situation where we look at a message like this and we think about those
missed opportunities and sometimes with those missed opportunities can come a level of regret.
It could be that missed opportunities are the direct result of disobedience where we've
simply disobeyed what God has instructed us to do. It could also be a matter of distraction.
I'm not trying to eliminate the fact of disobedience, but sometimes we just get too busy. We just
go through life almost like with the blinders on so that we're not, I just need to be laser
focused. Well as believers, yes looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith
and we're to have our eyes on our Savior, but can I remind myself and can I remind you
this morning that our focus is to be on the fields that are white unto harvest. Lift up
your eyes. The Lord says this and he tells us that the harvest, listen, it's plenteous.
The labors, they're few and I understand that at times not only could it be disobedience,
not only could it be distraction, but at times it could be discouragement because you've
tried to share the gospel and you went and you took the gospel and it was rejected and
it was rejected and it could cause us to be discouraged, but can I remind you this morning
that it's not about the result. God said to Ezekiel, if you warn them and they don't
change, they don't respond, they continue, they're going to die in their sins, but you're
clean. That's what it's about. That's the focus and I acknowledge this morning that
sometimes when we look back and we hear a message like this and Paul's talking about
past tense, he's talking about his ministry there in Ephesus and all that took place and
he says, you know these things. I think about those missed opportunities, so what do I do?
If I sit here this morning, if I, listen, you're hearing the message right now for the
first time. I've been dealing with it all week. In fact, it was about two weeks ago
that God put this message on my heart. And Mark, sometimes you want to argue with God.
Do I really want to preach that message? It's already messing me up. But God just kept
telling me, that's the message. That's the message. So what do we do? When we think about
those missed opportunities, we confess it to the Lord. Confess it to the Lord. Seek
forgiveness. God, I didn't warn him. I disobeyed. I wasn't a faithful ambassador. I wasn't a
good witness. For whatever reason, I was distracted, I was discouraged, I was just flat out disobedient,
I was afraid. Whatever it is, confess it. Forsake it. Lord forgive me. Aren't you thankful
that with thee is forgiveness? The Bible says that if we confess our sins, he is faithful
and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And praise God that we
have an advocate with our Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Praise God for that. And so
what do I do? Well, I don't get to a place where I just have a pity party and I just
kind of implode on myself that I've disobeyed in the past and I'm just going to keep on.
No, I'm going to confess it to the Lord. I'm going to get it right with God. And then I'm
going to do this. I'm going to ask God for another opportunity. You know, there's some
people that you might be able to think about this morning. There's some people that I've
thought about for the last two weeks that I didn't share the gospel with them. And I
may never have an opportunity with that person ever again. But I can ask God to give an opportunity.
I can ask God to give a second chance, if you will. Aren't you thankful that God is
a God of second and third and fourth chances, opportunities? Jonah got in to the belly of
that whale after he went in disobedience to God in a completely different direction from
Nineveh knowing sure well what God had commanded him to do. But then he got to Nineveh and
he preached the gospel. Now, he preached the message of destruction. We find that there
was a response that was a favorable response and then he's discouraged over it because
he didn't like the people of Nineveh and all those things. We're not going to get into
all that this morning. But we understand that God deals with him. But what I'm saying this
morning is that God is able to give another opportunity. No doubt there are some that
have died that we may not have another opportunity. But we just, we have to confess it to the
Lord. So what do we do? What's the response to a message like this? Well, number one,
we look back and we say, man, I've got a lot of blood on my hands. I have shunned. I've
not been faithful. God, forgive me. Forgive me. But then, number two, we look back and
we look at today and we look forward. And we make a commitment to God. Not a commitment
to the pastor, not a commitment to some other person, but we make a commitment to God that
God, by your grace and with your help, I want to be a faithful ambassador. God, I want to
seize the opportunities that you would give me. God, I want to be prepared. I want to
be ready to preach the gospel. Paul would say in verse 16, for I am not ashamed of the
gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth,
the Jew first and also to the Greek. And we begin to understand that going forward from
today, really the heart added to the heart.
attitude, the desire would be, I don't want any more blood on my hands. I don't want any
more blood on my hands. The question by way of the title this morning is, how much blood
do I have on my hands? But the concern for every one of us this morning is this, let's
not add any more blood to our hands. Does that make sense this morning? I can't change
yesterday. I can't change yesterday. I can simply confess it and ask God to forgive me
and ask God for another opportunity. But I can't go back in time. Somebody said to me
earlier this morning, Kevin, he's like, I can't be at two places at one time. We can't.
But we also can't go back in time. We just can't do it. It's impossible. But don't allow
that to cripple you for today and for forward. What do I mean by that? Well, sometimes we
can get so paralyzed by our past mistakes that we stop doing or we continue to make
those mistakes and we don't change because of all of our regret and our, you know, difficulty
of, well, I messed up over here and I didn't do this. No, no, listen, we've got to confess
it and forsake it and then we've got to say, God, I don't want any more blood on my hands.
I just don't want any more blood on my hands. But they don't want to, listen, the devil's
going to fight you. They don't want to hear it. So what? So what? God, listen, do you
think the people wanted to hear Ezekiel? What about Isaiah in chapter number six when he
was commissioned to go? God gives him the commission. You know what Isaiah saw? He saw
God high, holy, and lifted up. And he was broken and he fell before the Lord and we
find that there in Isaiah chapter number six, who will go, right? And Isaiah answers
the call, here am I. And he answers the call, here am I, before he fully understands the
commission. Why? Because he saw God. When you get full of God, when you see God in His
rightful place, you'll just obey Him. It's not a matter of God tell me first what I need
to do and then I'll determine if I'm going to obey you. It's that I'm going to obey you
because of who you are. And then God tells them, you're going to go, you're going to
preach, but they're not going to listen. You read it in Isaiah six, they're not going to
listen. Well isn't that exciting? Really? Isn't that exciting? But it wasn't a matter
of whether they listened to Him or whether they responded to Him. You know what Isaiah
was blessed for? Obeying. Obeying. Obedience. Doing what God said to do. Paul would say
in Colossians chapter number one, if you want to look there quickly and finish with this
this morning, in Colossians chapter number one, Paul is mentioning and really right along
with what we're looking at this morning with this idea of warning. Listen, the devil's
going to fight you. But you've got to make a determination. I don't want any more blood
on my hands. I don't want any more blood on my hands. In Colossians chapter number
one, in verse twenty-seven, the Bible says, to whom God would make known what is the riches
of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
whom we preach. Notice what it says, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom
that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. That phrase every man is used three
times in verse twenty-eight. The desire of anyone that's preaching the gospel is that
everyone that would hear it would respond in obedience. But I've preached the gospel
long enough to know that that doesn't happen. It's an individual decision to receive or
to reject. But I understand that I still have a responsibility before God to continue
to warn every man. To continue to warn. Listen, I've had people that have said, no, I don't
want that gospel tract. Get out of here. We had a lady, listen, we send out these new
move-ins. If they have an apartment or something, we mail it to them instead of taking it to
their door because we can't get in many times. And somebody called the church last week.
I mean, mad as a hornet because we sent them a welcome to the neighborhood. But you know
what made them mad is that there was a gospel tract in there. There was a gospel tract in
there. I've had somebody rip a gospel tract up in my face. Literally. I think, Kimberly,
you went to the same place and had a similar situation. Aldi, right over here, there's
a worker there. And I simply said, as many times I do, and I don't engage with people
in lengthy conversations when they're working to respect the fact that they're working,
but I took out a gospel tract and I said, listen, can I share this with you? And a lot
of times I say this, the message in this tract changed my life and I want to know if you'll
read it. And that guy followed me about 12 feet or 15 feet out of the Aldi and he said,
is this for me? I was like, yeah, it's for you. He's like, so I can do anything I want
with it. I was like, well, I hope you'd read it. He's like, so this is for me. And he got
as close to me as he could and he just ripped it right in my face. You know what the truth
is in that situation? If we can look at Ezekiel, his blood is on his head. I can't make him
read it. I can't make him believe it. But we better be warning. We better be warning.
And so what can we say this morning? How much blood is on your hands? How much blood is
on my hands? And how do we respond to that? Acknowledge that you have blood on your hands
and ask God to forgive you. And then determine from this day going forward, with God's help
and by God's grace, I don't want any more blood on my hands. Let's pray. Father, we
love you this morning. We're thankful for your grace and for your mercy. I'm thankful
this morning to be your representative, your ambassador. God, I pray that you would help
each one of us in these moments as we have an opportunity to respond to what we've heard
this morning. Thank you for using your word. You promised to do so and I believe that you
have. And now God, would you help us to be doers of the word and not hearers only. Lord,
would you help us to be humble and broken this morning to confess the blood that's on
our hands. God, would you help us this morning to commit as we go forward that by your grace
and with your help we'll have no more blood on our hands. That we'll be actively engaged
in warning. As Paul said, he warned every man. God, those opportunities that you would
give us, would you help us to seize them? Would you help us to speak forth the glorious
name of the Lord Jesus Christ? Souls would be saved and lives would be changed. Use us
God for your glory. Well thank you for every decision that's made for it's in Christ's
name we pray. Would you stand with me? Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. If you're not
sure of heaven this morning, I warn you, today is the day of salvation. Mark's here with
the Bible if you're a man. Holly's here with the Bible if you're a lady. Come and take
a Bible and show you can know for sure that heaven's your home. But the message obviously
is to believers this morning. And as Kimberly plays, the altar is open.